Nia/docs 0.7.0 (#14353)
hashicorp/consul: website/content/docs/nia/api/status.mdx

---
# Status

The `/status` endpoints return status-related information for tasks. This endpoint returns a count of successful and failed task events that are recorded whenever tasks execute an automation. Currently, only the five most recent events are stored in Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS). For more information on the hierarchy of status information and how it is collected, refer to [Status Information](/docs/nia/tasks#status-information).

> If CTS is configured [for high availability](/docs/nia/usage/run-ha), you can send a request to the [`/status/cluster` endpoint](#cluster-status) of any instance to get information about the cluster. Requests to the `status` endpoint return a 400 error, however, if high availability is enabled and the request is sent to a follower instance. The error message depends on what information the follower instance is able to obtain about the leader. Refer to [Error Messages](/docs/nia/usage/errors-ref) for more information.

Reviewer: This paragraph is a bit confusing. You can send requests to `/status/cluster` regardless of it being a follower or a leader. This contradicts `Requests to the `status` endpoint return a 400 error, however, if high availability is enabled and the request is sent to a follower instance.`

Maybe something like this is clearer:

```suggestion
If CTS is configured [for high availability](/docs/nia/usage/run-ha), with exception to the [`/status/cluster` endpoint](#cluster-status), requests to the `status` endpoint on follower instances return a 400 error. The error message depends on what information the follower instance is able to obtain about the leader. Refer to [Error Messages](/docs/nia/usage/errors-ref) for more information. With high availability configured you can send requests to the `status/cluster` endpoint on any CTS cluster member instance to receive information about the entire cluster. 
```

---
# Status

> The `/status` endpoints return status-related information for tasks. This endpoint returns a count of successful and failed task events that are recorded whenever tasks execute an automation. Currently, only the five most recent events are stored in Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS). For more information on the hierarchy of status information and how it is collected, see [Status Information](/docs/nia/tasks#status-information).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The `/status` endpoints return status-related information for tasks. This endpoint returns a count of successful and failed task events that are recorded whenever tasks execute an automation. Currently, only the five most recent events are stored in Consul-Terraform-Sync (CTS). For more information on the hierarchy of status information and how it is collected, refer to [Status Information](/docs/nia/tasks#status-information).
```

  }
}
```

## Cluster status

The `/v1/status/cluster` API endpoint returns information about high-availability clusters and its members, such as health status and leadership. This endpoint is only supported when using CTS in [high availability mode](/docs/nia/usage/run-ha). If you call the endpoint without configuring CTS for high availability, then CTS prints an error to the console. Refer to [Error Messages](/docs/nia/usage/errors-ref) for information about CTS error messages. 

| Method | Path              | Response format    |
| ------ | ----------------- | ------------------ |
| `GET`  | `/status/cluster` | `application/json` |

### Request parameters

> Currently no request parameters are offered for the overall status API.

Reviewer: I think this should be:
```suggestion
Currently no request parameters are offered for the cluster status API.
```

### Request statuses

- `200`: Successfully retrieved the cluster status

### Response fields

The following table describes the responses that the `status/cluster` endpoint can send. 

| Field | Type | Description |
| --- | ---- | --- |
| `cluster_name` | string | Identifies the name of the cluster. |

> | `members` | array | Contains an array of [member objects](#member-objects). Each object in the `members` array represents a CTS instance. |

Reviewer: For consistency should be `list[member]` instead of `array`

Should the `member` part of `list[member]` should link to the member object below

Reviewer: Also consider using `list` instead of the word `array`. Array doesn't appear to be used elsewhere

Reviewer: ```suggestion
| `members` | list[[member](#member-objects)] | Contains a list of [member objects](#member-objects). Each object in the `members` array represents a CTS instance. |
```

#### Member objects

The following table describes the fields available for objects in the `members` array.  

| Field | Type | Description |
| --- | ---- | --- |
| `address` | string | Indicates the location of the instance. The address is only included in the response if the `high_availability.instance.address` option is configured on the leader instance. Refer to the [high availability instance configuration](/docs/nia/configuration#high-availability-instance) reference for additional information. |
| `healthy` | boolean | Indicates the health of the service instance health. Refer to [Service Registration](/docs/nia/configuration#service-registration) for additional information. |
| `id` | string | Indicates the service registration ID. Refer to [Service Registration](/docs/nia/configuration#service-registration) for additional information. |
| `leader` | boolean | Identifies the cluster leader. |

> | `service_name` | string | Identifies the name of the service that the instance represents. Refer to [Service Registration](/docs/nia/configuration#service-registration) for additional information. Default is `consul-terraform-sync`. |

Reviewer: I would suggest saying that the value is set by `service_name` in `Service Registration.` It already contains the default, and it is where the default is set.

That way if the default changes in the future, you don't have to change that documentation in two places

Reviewer: Also I think because this is a returned object, and not configuration, the default isn't necessarily critical information

> | `service_name` | string | Identifies the name of the service that the instance represents. Refer to [Service Registration](/docs/nia/configuration#service-registration) for additional information. Default is `consul-terraform-sync`. |

Author: ```suggestion
| `service_name` | string | Identifies the name of the service that the instance represents. The value is set by the `service_name` field in the [Service Registration](/docs/nia/configuration#service-registration) configuration.  |
```
